e
e e
I know right I know another live stream
another mentorship oh my goodness
how you doing folks I hope you're doing
well give me a second here I apologize
for being slightly late the OBS
streaming service thing I here I used
wasn't cooperating with me so I couldn't
find the settings to get myu to show up
so I just make sure
showing
JS like it looks like
sure second one more time
apologize
see my headphones
that's so I have it set to the lowest
latency so when I'm showing my 15sec
chart we won't go down to a 15c chart to
but we'll go to
one all right so let me explain
while I'm
even
doing as you know I've been trying to
get my kids to want to do this pretty
much since they were born trying to mold
them get
them not thinking for the purposes
of procuring an income from someone
else's hand relying on them to say what
they can when can
I don't like to cultivate an employee
mentality because I don't have so
uh my son Caleb
recently had an interest in making
another attempt at doing this I know a
lot of you always ask you know how are
my kids doing um how they doing in their
in their learning and whatnot first of
all I make them work and it's work
hardening it will make you
it if you're forced to do it if you get
money from Daddy and you get a lifestyle
given to you it kind of makes makes you
lazy and become very L ofas and you just
don't really have any pursuit in you
so that method I've used has hopefully
done its work in venom of uh making him
want to leave the the rat race knowing
that I'm not just going to dull money
out to him
his interest is again Peak and want to
make a good good attempt at it
so I get a lot of questions about you
know if if you're teaching your kids you
how do you teach your kids you know what
is it that uh you do differently if you
do anything
differently and I I honestly I do I do
things slightly differently because you
know they're my kids okay you're not
entitled to anything from me I'm not I
would do anything I'm not expected you
to to be your best friend or to be your
your guiding like as much as I seem like
I am in your videos it's because I'm
talking to my kids and that's why you
have this you connection with you
because you hear the sincerity in what
it is I'm teaching because I care about
them receiving it from you so it's like
a an archive of me teaching instructing
encouraging my own children so when
I talking with
sincerity
and
empathy it's genuine because I have them
in my mind now invariably sometimes I
get a student that's outside my family
tree and they'll contact me and they'll
say hey look you know I really
appreciate that you could do this this
that and I would touch on those types of
those typs about and or one of my kids
will say Dad how do you how do you deal
with a situation like this or what if
the market does that do you know when
not to do something or when should you
really push it aggressively
um I'm going to talk a little bit about
that not so much today but I want to
give like a baseline on where you should
be at when you first sit down to start
learning how to do
this I'll push buttons in front of you
I'll talk about where the market should
go I'll talk about what PD array isn't
so important to me at the time and why
and the ones that I think important so
that way it kind of like filters Out and
because I plan on doing this Monday
through
Friday it will be a exercise for you now
if you are already profitable if you're
already profitable whether you're using
my Concepts or a derivative of them or
you're doing something entirely
different it's probably better that you
don't watch the live stream just do what
you normally do because I'm probably
going to distract you or I'll be a
perfect excuse for you if you take a
losing trade you'll say ICT call me
to lose money and you won't take
responsibility and you need to be
responsible okay um the things I'm going
to touch on is obviously you
know where your mind should be every day
sitting down in front of the charts you
have to have some reason to be in the
charts doing it so that's the reason why
I started the The Stream at around 8 o'
I know it was like seven minutes late
but you're not my employer so I can
punch in late if I want and I can go
home early if I want
so I want to talk a little bit about
that ahead of 8:30 we have an a heavy
news driver the ism PMI number at 10
o'cl I'll be with you until probably
like quarter after 10: okay but uh this
mentorship at least the first lecture
here is probably going to be a little
Annoying for some of you that just want
to get out here and start pushing
buttons but I promise you if you don't
want to sit through this Live come back
to it when you have time to do it before
you watch tomorrow's live stream okay
because otherwise you'll miss the whole
importance of what it is that you should
be doing before you sit down whether
you're watching my live stream someone
else's live stream or you're doing your
own model you're in tre okay because
it's very very important that you have a
real reason of why you're doing it some
of you are here just want to see me do
something and and it not pan out just so
we can go on social media and get some
CPS and likes and some you interactions
because you need to get your grocery
bill and that's fine
but I'm not here to do those types of
things I'm not here to brag I'm not here
to post and yes I'm going to win the
robins cup to stop sending me emails
okay just I got plenty of time for that
don't worry about it it's in the bag
trust me on that I told you all I would
give you a drama i' would give you a
tragedy I give you a tear jerker but at
the end of the year it's my name at the
top of that list okay so just just just
relax keep making your videos because
you look stupid expose ICT filed Robin's
Cup this going to make it even better
but anyway our focus is going to be
primarily on the NASDAQ today but in
this mentorship I will go back to
talking about Forex because I know a lot
of you are stuck in that asset class
okay even though I'm not interested in
pushing any orders through that market
anymore I will cover some of the things
that are Salient to that individual
asset class when it is appropriate but
it's not appropriate right now because
right now I want you to think about what
it is you should doing before you are
trying to trade before you're trying to
trade with your funded accounts or
trying to pass combines or whatnot um
full disclosure I talked to Caleb and I
asked him you what his intentions were
what he wants to do what he's willing to
do U he wants to share and document his
progress so he'll be doing a a YouTube
channel so when I teach um I'm talking
he's not with me right now but he's
listening and watching you are so the
things I'm talking about in this is
going to
be my suggestion to you if you maybe
you've watched some of my videos maybe
you watched a lot of my videos and you
just don't know what to do or where to
begin or what to do right now what do I
do right now because it's very daunting
seeing how many videos I have and all
these different concepts and all these
different things these moving Parts it's
it's very
intimidating and I get it but it's it's
meant to be a compendium meaning it's
like it's my entire Encyclopedia of what
I'm willing to give to the public so you
can go and you can build your own model
so I'm going to show my son how he
should do it correctly this time where
it's step by step dad's going to be
explaining it live so that way there's
no hindsight stuff not that it was ever
hindsight when I was teaching and he
would watch me push the button right in
front of him he would see me explain I
think it's going to go here this is
where it's going to go next I don't want
to see it do this I don't want to do
that this is real mentorship okay it's
we're not going to be doing any Market
replay we're going to talk about Theory
and say now let me push the market
forward and watch what happens when you
had the benefit of already knowing what
it's going to do that is absolutely not
that's not mentorship that is absolutely
not teaching anybody anything and it
certainly doesn't Inspire trust in the
person that you're learning from because
they have the added benefit of knowing
what has already happened
so seeing live price action watching
data ticked without the benefit of
knowing what it's going to do is exactly
what you as a Trader are going to have
to encounter every single time you sit
in front of the charts you don't know
what's going to happen and right now is
a wonderful learning experience because
the climate is so statically charged
everything that's going on over the
Middle East right now they're going to
have reverberations throughout the
entire Market globally and probably in
your the woods where you live
so it increases the level of
responsibility on your part as someone
that wants to engage in these markets
because they're very risky and now add
to it the increased level and amplitude
of uncertainty where anything can
happen you know a bomb drops or series
of bombs drop in an
unexpected location and then boom
everything starts changing rapidly and
that fear and that Rush will be injected
into the
marketplace and they will use they being
the people that are in charge of price
action it's not the buying and selling
pressure that moves price and you'll
hear a lot about that as I go and I know
some of you don't like that I know some
of you don't believe in an algorithm I
know you believe that you know buyers
and sellers push price and that's fine
I'll leave you to that myth you want to
believe in fairy tales that's your
that's your business I'm not going to
try to wake you up from your dream sleep
tight price will do what it's going to
do because it's coded to do it based on
time okay and time is essential it's the
first Hallmark to when and why a market
should produce a displacement a run
whether it be impulsive whether it be
retracement whether it be
anything it's always going to be
delivered on the basis of time it's
going to move
at a specific time or a period of
time within 20 minutes that's a macro
and we're going to talk about those
things because I want to simplify it for
my son you all are getting that benefit
of seeing it hearing it and being
explained to you as if it were you being
Caleb I'm not hiding anything I just
sent him a text before I started I said
just stop texting me I'm doing it live
right now don't talk to me in the text
because you're going to distract me okay
so there's no secret texting going on
there's no conversation behind the
scenes everything you see and experience
while I'm doing these live streams is
exactly what he's digesting the same way
and the things that I'm going to
encourage him to do my suggestion is to
try it for yourself and you're going to
see everything that I taught is
absolutely not
complicated the complication comes from
people that want to take my stuff they
want to water it down to a one two3 a
pattern so they can go out to Amazon and
write a book there's dozens of books
about in them and I'm quite certain all
of them are wrong but it's a cash grab
because my name's big right
now it won't be forever and somebody
else will become something interesting
and and and that'll be the new Buzz
thing but right
now the problem with it the community
that has any interest in me is either
they want to do the gacha about me
because it gives them grocery m
or they want to learn from me and then
say they don't learn from me but they
talk with my vernacular they use all my
terms they tra just like me but they say
they don't and they do
mentorships
so if you're one of those individuals
I'm going to help you too not because I
want to but because it's going to be a
default it's it's going to be a default
uh response to you being here because
you're going to learn how to finally do
it instead of attending instead of
talking about and teaching through
Market replay okay
um I asked my son what his interest was
he doesn't want me to give him money to
trade with which is good that's cool so
I asked him what his intentions were and
he said are you going to go through like
a Prof again and he said he was going to
use TOP Step now for
disclosure uh if anyone if anyone from
Top step is listening I don't know if
they do or don't I know I have students
in my mentorship that are affiliated
with them um directly not just users of
it but they have no connection to me
they have no connection to my son Caleb
there is no affiliate links okay I have
no connection with TOP Step I did not
ask them to be a partner with me I they
didn't ask me to be a partner with them
I'm not trying to push any of you to
their company I personally would not TR
with with the company like any of them I
I just I I personally wouldn't do it I'm
just stating full disclosure while my
son learns how to do this when he feels
equipped to do that
again he will then use top step to do a
uh a funded account so that way
everything could be seen through the
lens of that instrument so you can see
what he's doing when he's making money
when he's not making money if he does
any withdrawals and gets payouts you'll
see all that stuff okay so it's kind of
like a a test tube baby experiment he's
completely he says he is we'll see what
happens when we do a little further
along but he says he's comfortable with
disclosing all of it and he wants to put
it on his own YouTube channel and why
does he want to do that because I'm GNA
I'm want to kill that real quick I know
a lot of you are psted up and your
paintings are on a bunch oh if he's so
good and he's your son he shouldn't need
to do all these things well here's what
he's doing he's working a job just like
you are you're working a job but you're
probably on other people's YouTube
channels and you're trolling people and
you're on those social media trolling
because you're miserable because you
don't have any money dad's not giving
him any money he doesn't want Dad to
give him money he wants to do it on his
own stee I respect that that's exactly
what I want him to do I want all my kids
to do that I gave money to Cody and it
didn't help him so I learned my lesson
there so I make my kids
work if he knows there is an interest
and there's a huge interest in what my
kids are learning from me
directly so if I'm willing to teach him
that and he's willing to share that and
I'm comfortable with that because if he
makes a YouTube channel while he's
learning yes there will be ad Revenue
behind those videos that he puts up and
shows his his progress that's not
important right now in the grand scheme
of things because there isn't going to
be a whole lot of viewership I'm sure
initially there's going to be the morbid
curios of seeing him fail when he does
fail and they will be celebrated amongst
the social media networks okay that's
great that's that's that's good because
that draws a crowd but when he has his
Milestones where he grows and gets a
little bit more understanding and he
finds his successes and you hear him
explain what he struggles with when you
hear him explain what he felt Victorious
over and what he made a big deal out of
while he was first learning how to do it
and then he realizes it wasn't that big
of De
it will
personify the very things that I've
already taught and mentioned in Twitter
spaces where I would marless Council
encourage them but you think I'm talking
to you I'm talking to them and it feels
like we you and I have a intimate
relationship that I care about you on a
personal level because I'm speaking that
way to
them so you can tap into that same work
and or Hive mentality that I have
directed towards my own children by
going through this
mentorship it will be over life price
setion it'll
be real experience that way you can see
what it is that you should be doing and
try at my best try to steer you away
from the things that you're probably
going to want to be doing but they're
going to be detrimental to your
development and this first lecture is
number one your mindset going into and
then how we set up our starts what we're
looking for to start a baseline to
determine what type of Trader you're
going to be because it's real important
that I don't push you into a mode Caleb
needs to tell me what he wants to do and
then once he finds out what that is and
I'm going to teach how to determine what
that is for yourself today too because
if you don't have that direction if you
don't have that pathway you're going to
waste a lot of time you're going to
chase things you're going to worry about
things that are not important it's going
to actually slow your growth it'll slow
down your productivity and it'll hold
you back and there's nothing more
challenging than feeling like you're not
doing enough in trading because no
matter if you're making money or not you
know what it's like if you've made any
money whether it be a demo account you
dabbling around with it or you tried to
fund it accounts and you got lucky you
got a pay out and then now you never can
do it again what
changed nothing changed you just got
lucky doing something that had no
bearing on what you should be doing
consistently going forward it was just
an aition it's something that you it
just
happened but now you have attributed to
well that's that's that's skill and
we're going to show how you develop real
skill so that way you can produce a
consistent Baseline to to evaluate okay
do I want to be a
Trader that focuses on long-term Trend
directional moves
and only trading in that direction or do
I look for periods where even in those
longterm daily and weekly
movements where can I see potential
intermediate term or short-term
retracements because I understand the
trend may be going in One Direction but
it's something I don't trust to be be a
part of because maybe you've tried
entering on Trend models and they burn
you and they retrace deeply against you
and you feel
more comfortable fading those types of
moves I'm going to teach on that topic
as well so that way you'll have reversal
patterns Turtle suit real Turtle suit
not Twitter wish versions of it the idea
of knowing where the market should
retrace
deeper maybe even the basis of retracing
to set up a long-term Trend model entry
to get in sync with that daily and or
weekly Direction so it's a it's real
important that you have some input
initially not just take everything I'm
saying writing it down in your notes and
saying okay I'm going to do this this
this this this and I'm going to file to
the letter of the law and then it's
going to give me what I'm looking for
there we're in that gray area initially
where you have the responsibility
because if you don't do this part
correctly everything you do after this
holds you up and it's not because my
stuff doesn't work doesn't mean that I'm
not a good teacher doesn't mean that
that you can't consistently profitable
it just means that you screwed up and
didn't listen to this first lesson you
have to
determine what you're going to do as a
Trader and then whatever that is you
bloom there you plant yourself in that
you don't care what Caleb does you don't
care what I do you don't care what every
one of my other students do that live
stream and do it right in front of you
you don't care what anybody else is
doing even outside of my circle of
influence whatever they're doing whether
they're being profitable not that's none
of your business you're going to have no
bearing on their outcome or their
results you're not going to make them
more money you're not going to prevent
them from being profitable so why waste
any time trying to do that don't try to
copy cut anybody don't try to do that
the things that you should try to copy
is the mindset about what I'm going to
cover in terms of reading price very
specific generic things that are
absolutely not complicated folks it is
not complicated
complication comes when people want to
try to dilute it to make it look like it
really isn't my Concepts or my teachings
or my
lectures that's what makes it
complicated that's why everybody asks
for my slides from the mentorship that's
why everybody says talk little you talk
too much because most of them are not
English speaking individuals and they
want to translate it into their local
language and if you are running a
YouTube channel I'm going to toss this
in real quick if you're doing a YouTube
channel and there's a dozen of you right
now that I'm getting R into copyright
strikes against you're translating all
of my mentorship videos into your local
language and I don't give you permission
to do that I've already taken down
several channels that have done that and
you can be mad at me you can send me
hate mail you can do all those things
and be mad at me about that but I've
already said that I don't give you
permission to do that you know if if you
want to do that go write a book on
Amazon that's what people have done okay
I can't stop you from doing that and
everybody wants apparently wants to buy
them so go ahead and go that but you
don't have my permission to take the the
work the time and effort I put into
making charts the lectures the graphics
all those things I did that on my own
you don't have you don't have the rights
to use them so uh you're all going to
lose your app Revenue in that and I
don't feel bad for you because I already
wanted you ahead of time so no you don't
have the permission to do that but Caleb
will have whatever he gets in terms of
AD Revenue to help meet his bills while
he works his job and it helps alleviate
some of those things that plague people
while they're trying to learn which is I
need to make money real fast because you
can't force being profitable you can't
do it folks you absolutely cannot do it
and I said this in my mentorship to my
students I said listen one of the best
things you can do is create another
stream of income and I gave them
permission that hey look if you want to
go out and live stream not teach that
was when I was doing the mentorship
go out and and show on a live stream and
monetize it that your development is
here here's what I'm trying to do I'm
trying to be profitable and I'm going to
trade the Forex Market or I'm going to
trade you know futures or whatever is
you know some of them trade crypto I
don't like crypto but it is what it is
the uh by the way did you hear about
crypto or Trump came out and said he was
going to make America like the the hubs
for Bitcoin all of a sudden Bitcoin fell
out of bed that's interesting isn't it
but anyway I encourage my
students to live stream to get a
secondary income because that passive
secondary income can be a way of
maneuvering the fear and anxiety away
from you needing to be perfect in your
traits which is absolutely
toxic absolutely toxic you cannot have
that mindset as a Trader you can't do
that you have to invite the opportunity
for you to be wrong and then it doesn't
sound productive it sounds
counterintuitive to say okay I invite
myself to be incorrect about what my
assumptions are about the price action
right now and when I go into a trade
when you go into a trade as soon as you
enter that trade you've completely given
the
responsibility of the outcome to the
market
you don't have any assurity that your
stock loss is going to get you out at
that price you don't have that
promise that guarantee the market could
happen especially in the conditions we
have right now where a bomb a war can
break out in an undisclosed location
boom unexpected events bang you have a
huge gap and it could Gap Way Beyond
where your stop loss is and guess what
folks that risk is always there that's
why every brokerage firm makes you sign
these risk disclosures because that's
what can happen and when it happens you
want to sue The Brokerage company you
want to sue this one and Sue that one
because the unexpected happen and for
individuals that trade with extreme
leverage that would never do that with a
real account but they were doing it with
their funded account because all they
got to do is pay the reset or they get
free free resets because they having an
affiliate program with one of these
companies it kind of promotes the wrong
wrong idea okay it doesn't matter how
many times you can show that you did
something right
here but it you're constantly restarting
these new accounts you if you're an
influencer and you keep doing that
you're actually having a detrimental
impact on your viewership because
knowing that people have
selective vision and selective hearing
they're attracted to when it's right and
when it makes money so therefore I want
to be like this person because look what
they just made but you're not disclosing
the entirety behind everything and I
just blew 25 accounts or I just had to
reset 16 accounts because every one of
them got blew
out it kind of It kind of defeats the
whole premise behind what is it you're
doing following them except for just
entertainment value so I'm trying not to
be um anything but straight nuts and
bolts this is what you're supposed to be
focusing on but if I don't lay the
groundw work initially on the first
discussion here in the first 20 minutes
or
so you won't know what we're doing and
you'll just be watching for something
and anticipating or trying to predict
what it is I'm going to say next and
that's not going to be helpful to you in
fact it'll probably be very frustrating
for you and you'll either turn off and
go watch the The Usual Suspects on on my
uh live streaming or you'll just walk
away and you'll do nothing with it and
maybe you'll come back to this live
stream at a later time but you'll still
have this better bitter taste in your
mouth and you won't be willing to write
down the things I'm talking about and
preparing yourself you have to
absolutely prepare yourself to learn
properly and if you don't have that
mindset going in everything you do
everything you focus on will be the
wrong
things they they'll all be doing things
that
are you know moving towards um
consistently profitable that that's
that's the number one goal whether it be
learning from me or learning from anyone
else it's it's
not aach that is outside your grasp
right now it might be because you're
brand
new but if you do the things that I'm
going to suggest to my
son and he doesn't Rush he doesn't rush
to go and try to pass a combine he
doesn't rush to get a payout he doesn't
try to trade every single fluctuation in
price he doesn't try to do everything
that I've made available to all of you
which is what most of my students try to
do they all dabble too
much and if you simply go through this
simple question and answer for yourself
right now are you someone now if you're
not paying attention right now you're
distracted you're going to miss
it but the type of person you are right
now are you someone if someone says to
you uh I don't think this is possible
and it doesn't necessarily be trading I
don't think this is possible or I don't
think that you can do that are you
someone that says they're probably
right
or I'm going to show this person they're
wrong and I'm going to show them 12 ways
that why they're wrong and I'm going to
do beyond what they thought I said I was
going to do or I could do and they said
I couldn't do I'm going to do more than
that okay because right now we're going
to divide you all as an audience because
either you're going to be someone that's
going to be
influenced and held back by someone
else's opinion or suggestion on you or
maybe you've watched someone else
receive
criticism okay you've watched other
people receive criticism and then you
somehow latch on to that like it was
told to you and you
feel emotional about it and you have a
psychological response and it was never
directed to you but you personify it and
personalize it to
yourself that very
telling that is a barrier for you as a
Trader you may not realize it right now
but Friday I'm going to cover the
contrasts of all that you may not know
the answers to these things right now
today because you want to think about
what I'm going to tell you and you all
want to be able to say yeah I want to be
the guy or gal that says if you can't do
this I'm going to prove it to them and
I'm going to do this and do that chances
are every male list is probably going to
be wanting to do that but in you in
honesty all of you aren't really like
that you're influenced by other people's
opinion and it makes you feel unsure
about yourself it may be causing anxiety
it may feel embarrassment you may feel
like you don't feel you're going to do
well because of someone else's opinion
about
it
or you have that spark that inspiration
that well kicking the uh the hinder
Parts if you will to to now do something
because it's a challenge that's been
laid in your hands like now this is what
it's like for for me when I listen to
other people when they say this can't be
done or no one can do that I am the
person my personality is is you tell me
that that can't be done or that I can't
do something I immediately my mind
immediately switches on I'm in Predator
mode like I'm in there looking for every
way to come back at them and say this is
how you're wrong and you were wrong here
and you were wrong here and you were
wrong there and you were wrong there
here there
everywhere and I want to bury them in it
that's my mentality and that's not a
strength that's just how I interact with
outside
influences and that stems from a
childhood that I had no control over the
factors and environments that I was left
in which were dangerous and they were
hostile so as an adult now I seek
control all the time I am a control
freak everything in every aspect of my
life I have to have control over it if I
don't have any control over it I am I
have no interest in it that's my pre
that's my disposition that's that's how
I
am you may not be that way you may be
very very passive and you may be very
lethargic in terms of responding to
things that are met as a challenge
towards you and you may be using that
very perception about the marketplace
and that's your hindrance that's the
barrier that you have to if you have
that mentality you're going to have to
break through that and it's not going to
be easy for you because what you're
seeing
is most people fail doing this most
people are not consistent most people
can't even determine where the Mark's
going to go let alone get in
stopped out or man it's risk appropriate
that's the majority that's the truth
about this industry very very very few
people can do this
consistently and you know this but
you're still willing to watch videos
you're still willing to try to practice
and and Dabble because you're waiting
for some kind of magical thing occur
where it just it clicks for you with no
real effort with no real study with no
real blogging and journaling you think
it's going to happen for you that's not
realistic so part of this mentorship
will
be using
the the tools and resources of
journaling properly but what is it
you're supposed to be journaling anyway
because if you're if you don't know what
you're doing you don't know where the
Market's going to go next because you
don't know bias you don't know profiling
you don't know session characteristics
day of week
characteristics uh seasonal tendencies
All Those things I'm going to present it
in a nice neat little package but it
cannot be done in one video I don't I
don't care how many people go on YouTube
and try to say I watched all of ict's
videos and now I'm G to show you in five
minutes how you can do it you want to do
that I promise you okay here it is
$500,000 okay go out there you don't
know what you're doing right now go out
there and watch the one of the five
minute trainer YouTubers okay and you
got four weeks to pass a combine and
make $100,000 by the end of the year if
you can prove that I will give you
$500,000 I will drive to your location
as long as you're in in the states I
will drive because I don't fly I'll
drive to your place and you can live
stream me live stream me giving you a
$500,000 Bank check okay that stuff
doesn't work folks you're going to have
to put some real effort into it you
can't condense it you can't reduce it
down okay and a lot of people don't
realize but you what I just did I just
made a lot of those guys mad and now
they're going to really do the little
micro mentorships and really what that
does is going to bring more traction
back to this mentorship because they're
going to work for free but anyway see
that everything's predetermined he's
monical he's a masteron he's
diabolical
anyway the very first step is for you to
determine where you are mentally and
then determine ahead of time preparing
yourself what adversities are going to
be in front of you for the folks that
are saying okay you say I can't do this
this or someone else is saying that you
can't do this you're going to go at at
100 m
net that's that's good that you have
confidence in yourself but the problem
is you're going to overstep that and
become overconfident and then as soon as
you're met with that first
adversity it's going to really hold you
down and it's going to cause you to
second guess the next step of stepping
out there in faith in determining what
it is that you're trying to do or
practicing and then what you end up
doing is the initial strength is I'm
strong I'm confident and nobody's going
to tell me I can't do it I'm going to do
it better than I would have done it if
they would just invited me to do it
casually but now because he said I
couldn't do it I'm GNA do a superhuman
Olympic feat of it and by doing that
what you end up doing is you increase
the level of adversity the difficulty
you put a time limit on it which is the
worst thing in the world to do you
absolutely put a a time limit on how
fast you should learn how to do
something as soon as someone starts
telling you I'm going to teach you how
to do ICT or anything else in this
number of days absolutely I promise you
they are full of grade a
manure they're lying to you that's
clicks for money they want you to either
buy something they're going to upsell to
you later on or they want you to keep
watching their videos that are not going
to help you they may be entertaining but
they're not going to supercharge your
understanding they're not going to make
you faster at learning it okay the only
thing they're doing is trying to
capitalize on a market that's huge right
now which is Tik Tock mentality you know
10c 15c 30 second uh time span of
attention span and I I have no patience
for anyone zero patience for anyone as a
student that thinks like that I broom
them quickly I get them out of my face I
don't want to have any interaction with
them because you're absolutely lazy
you're absolutely lazy you want it easy
you want it real fast and you have
unrealistic expectations and anyone that
Hason sense will tell you that that is
someone that will not be successful
period and the story if you don't want
to warm up the idea to how how to do
this properly and
understand really understand that's what
mentorship is understanding how you're
going to most likely in interact with
the marketplace what's a reasonable
response to you for you feeling this way
or that way should the market produce an
outcome that was either favorable or not
favorable for you how are you going
interact with let's say the first time
you sit down and you try to test
something and it takes off and runs like
150 Handles in the nasda
that what's that going to feel like for
you you're going to feel ecstatic you're
going to be excited and you're going to
feel like wow this is a whole lot easier
than I thought and that's
wrong but see that's the problem with
these 20 year olds that teach they want
you to have the emotional stimuli
because that emotional stimuli gives you
a
rush it's dopamine it's it gives you
that physical Feelgood butterfly moment
that does not
last it will not last 10 minutes later
you're not buzzing by that right call
that you made that demo trade that you
made or that just past your combine you
all think that I got to get my combine
passed and then I can start trading an
account where I can make profitable
trades so you're will to do everything
and anything just to gamble to get it
past and then once you get there you
think it's going to be easy when it
becomes extremely much more difficult
because now you don't want to lose that
past funded
account and every Candlestick looks like
a foreign language to you even if you
understand certain elements of reading
price action it will look completely
different you won't feel comfortable
pushing a button because now you're
thinking if I get in right here what if
it goes down to here or what if it goes
this to this High here where do I put my
stop loss I don't want to get stopped
out but I gota use a stop and see what
are you doing you're trying to protect
yourself from a losing trade because
that losing trade even if it's small in
denomination if it's small in amount of
really you dollar
risk the lasting impact in the depths of
how far it digs into your
backside it's monstrous because you're
creating a demon you're manifesting your
worst adversary because you didn't do
everything that I'm suggesting as a
starting point right now It prepares you
for this what do you think basic
training is for when people go to the
military it's to get the person
physically fit get them introduced to
constant disruption
constant mental fatigue so that way
they're not shell shocked and they get
out on the battlefield and freeze up
they're used to being treated like trash
worked out
fatigued run them work them hard talk
down to them there's no hope there's no
hope while you're in basic training well
this is what this is like here this is
basic training I'm not going to sugar
coat it for you Millennials I'm not
going to be nice to you and say honey
it's going to be okay let me hold you
let me hold you close and cuddle you
ict's got you baby ict's got you it's
okay it's okay that's not what this is
you want to learn how to trade you want
to be consistently profitable ICT is not
going to be rubbing your shoulders for
you okay and powdering your ass when the
Market's in front of you and you're
ready to take a trade and it's all on
you I'm not going to be there you have
to be able to do this on your own you
have to be able to do this
absolutely isolated you have to be an
island unto yourself when everybody else
is on social media saying they want to
do one thing or the other and you look
at your model saying I don't see that
you got to be completely comfortable
with that not for the basis of Simply
being a contan
alone but for the basis of okay I
understand what I'm looking for and this
is just further confirmation that the
herd of sheep out there are expecting
this so I know I have a lead pipe sense
trade now because every time Dick and
Harry out there is wanting the market to
go to this level or this direction
and here I am sitting confidently
waiting for a setup that's completely
diametrically opposed to what they
expect that's one of the things that I
take great comfort in watching live
streamers
because sometimes they get it right
that's fine most of the time they aren't
and the times that I'm looking for
something before I even start looking at
their live stream if it's opposed to
what I'm expecting it's a dead deal it's
over I know I'm I know I'm I'm on I'm
over the target I know I'm right and
that's not the goal here but I know I'm
going to use the maximum leverage okay
so whatever my maximum leverage would be
for that individual asset class or that
market I would be comfortable doing that
but initially when you first want to do
this you want to be trading listen folks
I know this is going to be unpopular but
you want to be trading with a
micro just because that funded account
says I can trade five contracts of the
NASDAQ with
$3,000 of a cushion I want you to hear
this okay and I mean this sincerely and
I'm not trying to be funny about it but
if you're trading more than one
contract of a micro with
3,000 cushion and you're not consistent
in cwow and you don't know what you're
doing you're absolutely gambling and
gamblers don't last long
you can gamble there's a lot of people
over the years with all these fund of
account companies I've had students
that's done this too paid mentorship
students that have gone through it they
passed combines they got paid out and
then they lost it and then it completely
undid them and they can't get it back
and they can't he can't pass another
combine why what what happened did the
concept stop working did they change the
algorithm no now they have baggage they
have scar tissue and now the lessons I
taught in those Twitter spaces over the
last couple years and now I'm not on
Twitter the the depths of where I was
trying to take you a lot of you haven't
gone to those places yet in your trading
so the lessons just went rid of your
head it doesn't apply to me but for
anyone that has actually tried to trade
with real money or had a live account or
a funded account and has taken
withdrawals from the marketplace
and then they lost it now those Twitter
spaces now those talking points those
lectures like we're doing right here
they are much more meaningful and
they're impactful and they are
helpful but when you have a millennial
that wants to go out here and say look
man this guy's full of crap you know
he's he's he's talking too much he ain't
done anything he ain't pushing any
buttons how am I gonna learn from
somebody like that I need somebody going
show me what to do so I can copy them
that's me learning no that's not you
learning that's how you grow codependent
and I don't want any of you to be
codependent I want you to be able to
walk out there and say this is what I
see potentially unfolding in the
marketplace today so I'm going to build
an idea on how the market May in fact
set this up and if I understand that
this is where it's likely to go now what
I mean by that is where's the draw and
liquidity where's the market likely to
go you know what are we looking for in
terms of potential expectations and
where the market could trade to and that
could be something like this we go
to we have relative equal highs right
here okay very simple
smooth price level the Market's gone
down a
lot several thousand handles okay we had
a huge gap new week opening Gap here so
where we settled on Friday and where we
opened on Sunday at six o'clock last
night Eastern Time in the states that
new week opening Gap that's a draw on
liquidity but we don't need it to trade
all the way up to there so where is the
lwh hanging fruit objectives for just
short-term
bias this is what I'm teaching you Caleb
initially I want you to think about
where the market could draw to right now
where it could go to
next and what that does is it gives you
something to focus on and it also gives
you a way of
measuring every individual candles
formation and what your expectation is
as it's forming and what the next
candles should do and how they behave
and what it feels like for you when you
do this
because whether you want to admit it or
not when you're first
starting the majority of your time is
going to be spent in
uncertainty in times of confusion it's
going to be
fearful it's going to
be well it's going to feel
very
anxious you you'll feel anxious you may
even start feeling body symptoms of
tingling lightheadedness feel like
you're going to get sick and you may
still only be in a demo because what
you're doing is you're elevating the
outcome to a level that
is not expected you don't need to put
that much pressure on you in fact if
that's how you're thinking it's normal
for you to feel that when you first
start trading with a real account that's
a normal thing but there's no way around
it there's no way around that first
trade with real money that fear that
anxiety is something you just have to
you have to engage it and that's why I
say soon as you get a live count first
thing you should do is flip a quarter
lowest leverage if it's tails you buy it
if it's heads you sell short or vice
versa you do the smallest and put a 15
Point stop on it and just let it happen
to you and get it break the ice and Let
It Go but see a lot of you if not all of
you you you want your first trade to be
a winner because you think it's a a jinx
okay it's somehow a an invitation for
failure if your first trade with your
real account loses money like that
somehow defines your entire career it
doesn't it's just one
transaction but the way you overcome
that is spending time without pushing a
button studying where price can go and
that's this we
have the short term High here post 830
meaning after we had
830 right here we have 836 so the market
went below these relative equal lows so
any liquidity below that they disrupted
that and then took it above this
short-term High took it above this
short-term high and traded right inside
this car value got right there
so when you're watching price Caleb
you're looking for how the market
Maneuvers and
trades in books between obvious price
levels with old highs old
lows and
inefficiencies there are the only two
things you're worried about you're not
trying to predict a direction on the day
you're not trying to be right about 50
handle runs you're just studying
observing
okay this down Clos candle here after
taking out the liquidity and then we
have displacement here displacement is
where the market runs against
a pre session pre day pre Trend or Price
swing Direction
it's a counter move to what's already
been in play so the market has dropped
here and then we moved aggressively
above the short-term high this High
being traded above there we go back down
to this down closed candle that down
Clos candle is a order block we have
displacement it took liquidity and the
market has been one directional now what
makes that order block specifically is
it is has happened post 8:30 now it
could have formed right at 8:30
because 8:30 the algorithm will start
spooling for liquidity or inefficiencies
one or the other now in the beginning
you're going to want to know you're
probably asking right now can you just
tell us what is it going to reach for is
it going to go for an old high or old
low or is it going to go for a fair
value Gap above or
below
both it's going to go for
both does that complicate it no now to
further strip away the you're adding to
it right now you're bringing all these
things but what if the co I didn't say
anything about a
coot yeah but what happens if the did I
say anything about those things that
you're thinking right now no they're not
important the only thing we're doing is
we're sitting down at a
time a time when the market is
predisposed that means it's most likely
going to do this and it will do it
unless some unexpected
event where manual intervention steps in
and you don't know and I don't know when
that's going to happen what does it look
like when the market just starts
going and it starts going One Direction
and it doesn't
stop it doesn't go up a little bit come
back a little bit up a little bit come
back a littleit that's that's market
Standard
delivery intervention is Think Like
fomc think like
CPI think like non-farm
payroll where if you're wrong if you're
offside right when it hits the market
you're
dead that's what manual intervention
looks like there are many
times untradeable it it takes off so
fast you you
reasonably no not reasonable you're
you're it's unreasonable for you to
assume that you can trade that once it
starts because you're literally chasing
the wind and you're never going to catch
it you're just going to frustrate
yourself and get placed very poorly and
you're going to be in a trade that's
going to be highly anxious and stressful
and that's not trading that's gambling
okay so when we look at individuals sit
up setups like this you want to sit down
in front of the marketplace right before
8:30 okay
preferably 8:00 and you want to look at
where the highs and the lows are in in
Defence to the one minute chart in a
15minute time so I'm G change this chart
over to 15 so here's what 15 minute
looks like
here and if you look at where we came
from see this high at 7 o'clock in the
morning that's this high right there see
it on the right chart so this chart this
larger chart here is the one minute and
this is the 15 minute time
15 five one minute those are your first
three time frames to worry about okay I
shouldn't say worried because it's kind
of us subconscious concern that you need
to worry about it you don't need to
worry about it but the levels and
inefficiencies on the 15 minute time
frame the five minute time frame and the
one minute time frame if you're brand
new you don't know how to trade ICT you
don't have to trade price action you
don't have to trade period okay you
don't need any other time frame okay you
don't need anything else you don't need
a daily chart you don't need an hourly
chart you don't need a 31 minute chart
you don't need a 17 minute chart you
don't need a 15c chart you don't need
anything below a one minute chart you
don't need anything else to do what I'm
going to teach you okay this is what
you're doing you're studying price at
specific times of the day if you're not
writing this part down you're blowing it
already so between 8:00 and 8:30 in the
morning New York local time or Eastern
Standard Time
in the
US everything I mentioned in terms of
time if it's the
time that matches New York local time so
set a clock if you have your smartphone
there's a way that you can pull up world
time and put one in there for New York
and you'll always know what time ICT is
saying to look for these things to
happen because they're never going to
not be
there write that down again okay and
underline it this is always absolutely
without fail it's never not going to do
it it's always every single effing day
it's going to do this very thing it's
going to do it it's going to absolutely
do it because there is an algorithm and
it does this to spur on emotional
interest or tangible orders that are
actually sitting out there real orders
that are sitting above and below or
inside of inefficiencies where the
market needs to offer fair value to the
marketplace so what is it reaching for
it's reaching for old highs old lows and
inefficiencies that's the fair value Gap
C VY that thing so once we know that the
market is likely to do these things
that's a characteristic it's an
algorithmic characteristic you don't
need anything else besides this
element as the Foundation to what you're
trying to
trade and you can make all the money
you'd ever
want I'm going to say that again in case
you missed it you're trying to find
right now you want the daily bias and
you want to be able to buy below the
open and hold for the whole entire day
but are you really doing those things
when you try to trade no as soon as you
get 10 handles or 10 Pips or whatever
you you start struggling with holding on
to the
trade you're paranoid that that winning
trade you just found out just fell into
your lap oh my goodness this I'm winning
this this is something new I need to
secure this but then you're you're
thinking oh wait a minute I'm suppos be
holding for the daily range and now
you're wrestling and that becomes a real
hard wrestling match doesn't it makes
you feel nauseous and if anybody tries
to talk to you even if they love you
your spouse your girlfriend your
boyfriend your child your dog comes over
nuzzles up next to you any other time
you're like oh this time get away from
me
can't you see I'm trying to worry about
this 10 pip handles
[Music]
move the weight of the world is on my
shoulders right now and you're coming at
me with
this you know what it means you're
stressing out why why would you have
that
response folks listening to headphones
like oh man this guy you're awake now
aren't
you but that's the reality that's what
it's like and you'll feel it if you
never been there you'll feel it
but the reason why you feel that is
because you don't know what you're
doing you haven't done this part long
enough where you're completely
desensitized to okay I'm doing this
exercise to get comfortable with
anticipating price moves I'm getting
comfortable with not knowing what it's
going to do next candle this candle five
candles from now but I think it's going
to draw to specific price
levels so if it clears that shortterm
low we talked about what's it going to
reach into we have this inefficiency
here how long does it take to do that
and then you record you screenshot this
and you say okay well it took one two
three four five six
candles from this volume
imbalance to run above this short ter
high and get into this C which is a sell
side and balance bu side efficiency a
fair value gut that has a down close is
a Civ okay a fair value Gap that has a
up
close is a bissy b c efficiency so what
you're doing is you're measuring because
you have zero Baseline experience you
have no continuity and what is you're
reaching for looking for in price action
and you study how long it took and you
record that many this many minutes and
you also are honestly going to record in
your Journal within the screenshot like
like maybe over here or somewhere over
here you're going to record what it felt
for you
physically were you anxious did you
second guess that it was going to run
there did you feel excited the entire
time were you impatient that you thought
it should have moved there sooner and
faster did certain candle formations
cause you to you doubt it did you have a
point at which you thought that this was
given another opportunity to trade
to or not trade to but offer another
entry like say for instance if you want
to Pyramid pyramiding should not be part
of your repertoire yet that's something
that you need to be doing maybe a year
after trading with one contract oh come
on you want to learn how to do it
correctly this is the way you do it
there's all kinds of time and
opportunity for pyramided trades but you
first have to get good at trading with
one micro
contract one micro contract because what
that does is it removes
hopefully this is the only thing you can
do to to fend off the greed and
fear you can't blow the account if you
trade with one
micro and you only take one trade a
day you there it's physically impossible
for you to go out there on day one and
blow the account
see that's what your your subconscious
is fearful of I don't want to blow the
account I don't want to have a big
losing trade I don't want to go into big
draw down okay that's easy don't over
leverage your account and don't take
more than one trade a day but ICT but
ICT nothing if you want to be able to do
it
correctly you have to do things with a
process there has to be a logic behind
it there has to be some measure of rule
based thinking and then you have to
adhere to that if you don't want to
adhere to rules I promise you you're
going to lose you're going to fail and
you're going to blame me you're going to
blame everybody else you're going to
blame the the prop firm you're going to
blame the brokerage firm you're going to
blame everything but
you I knew this because I did the same
thing as a 20-year-old I did the same
thing numerous times I have
students that repeat the same thing
they've sent me hate mail years ago oh
you you didn't teach me right this blah
blah blah and then later on they went
through it properly and then they send
me emails apologizing it was it was a
mistake on my part ICT I didn't listen I
went back and relistened to it all and I
made all the mistakes you said I was
going to make if I didn't listen and
just plunged ahead and did what I wanted
to do now I did it the right way I
listened to what you were expecting in
terms
of a properly mindset student that
follows the rules and accepts the the
diversities initially they're normal
they're all normal growing
paints but see you're trying to be the
ex exception you don't want it to happen
to you you think it's going to be candy
bars and milkshakes and just everything
sweet and lovely and butterflies are
going to come land on your hand and
everything by God
no no no no no
no as soon as you push the button you're
asking the shark to take a leg
off you're asking that lion to take your
face off you're inviting it
that's what it is as soon as you enter
these markets you've entered the jungle
you've enter the Deep
Waters and honey everybody's hungry and
if you offer it up on a silver platter
they're going to take it and eat it and
you can't be upset about it that's the
that's the that's the the the currency
here yours or mine mine or
yours that's it it doesn't matter how
anybody else trades it's are you
liquidity right
now are you liquidity because if you're
liquidity you're
lunch I go in and I'm looking for lunch
I'm looking for the liquidity I'm
looking for reasons why the market will
trade to this level why it could
potentially trade to this level but I
don't need it to trade for
instance this is the draw on liquidity
draw on liquidity is just a
initial reasonable assumption on our
part to determine a directional move
that could unfold it does not mean and
it does not define the absolute
terminous to a price Run for the be all
end all
Target in in planer
terms the Market's probably going to
keep moving until it gets to this level
it doesn't mean that it can't have
retracements lower it doesn't mean that
it can't make a lower low than it's done
here highly unlikely but it's still a
initial idea so when you're first trying
to learn how to read these markets and
you're first trying to determine where
the Market's likely to go you have to
strip away everything that you're trying
to force into reading every single
individual
Candlestick and if you watch a lot of my
videos or if you have a lot of notes or
you've dabbled in things chances are you
probably already have a pet technique
that you want to be yours and you may
not even be good at using it yet but you
just want it because it has a cool name
like a a Reaper fair value de you know I
talk that to my PR mentorship they're
like uh oh man that's GNA be my thing
that's gonna that's gonna be it for me
you know or Event Horizon which is the
midpoint between two uh two new week
opening gaps or New Day opening gaps and
because of the names
okay these names are meaningful to me
they're they're not meant to inspire you
to want to do them over another it's
just that's that's what I name I got 81
of these things so it's a way for me to
keep track of what its purpose was and
or it kind of puts a little stamp of
when I discovered it and something had a
impact on me and it was a cool name or
inspiration to it
so when we're looking at price is you as
a brand new student not knowing what to
do do you want to make this kind of like
a
game and a a discovery something fun not
a video game okay but it's a game of
determining does it have what it takes
to move to these highs
here a way of saying it to yourself
that's very disarming is okay I see how
this is
smooth these two Highs are relatively
equal that looks like a real nice
obvious flat space in
price we don't see that same flatness
down here you see
that so in other words if you had a
shark know if you had two sharks rather
you have two sharks in front of you one
has had its teeth
removed well that would be represented
something like this this is the shark
with no teeth it's basically the guns
okay there's no teeth there down
here there has been a shark attack how
do we know that because we can see the
wounds from the teeth the jaggedness the
jaggedness the jaggedness and now it's
going to another fre to another frenzy
or feeding where is that well we we've
just created one we have this High here
that's really close to this one you see
that so you observe price action and
you're looking for areas that look real
smooth and safe
where they say peace and safety sudden
destruction comes upon
them any time that you're looking at
Price action and it doesn't matter what
time frame you're looking at okay if
you're looking at it through the lens of
a second chart Sub sub one minute or a
weekly chart or a monthly chart or a
quarterly chart where it's three months
of data compressed in to make the
candlesticks it does not
matter this principle is always true the
market will go to an area of smoothness
for the purpose of disrupting any orders
that would be resting above or below it
we've already mentioned down
here now don't be
discouraged if you can't watch this
stuff real time and see it or outline in
advance it's okay for you to come home
for
work and look at your your your Parts
after the fact and go back and look at
this and study it as if you have
obviously the benefit of of hindsight
initially but you don't want to stay in
that very long so you're going to have
to prepare yourself some instruments
that allow you to watch price action not
with Market
replay look I am not a fan of Market
replay I absolutely loath it I hate it I
can't stand it and I wish it wasn't
available that's that I wish it wasn't
even available to anyone else because
it's a crutch that allows frauds to be
able to sound like they're smart and
teach something because it's already
happened if you can do it over life
price
action not just once in a while but
continuously and your audience or or
viewership can see this then you have
earned the right to have a voice and
then people should have no problemss
sitting and listening to you lecture and
talk about what you think's likely to
occur because you have a sound basis or
Foundation to what what it is that
you're talking about therefore because
you have a track of of being able to
talk about before it happens it removes
the anxiety that is reasonable for
everyone to have when they first sit
found this but when you as the student
and you don't have the ability to watch
it live because you have a job or may
you're in University or you sleep like
you have to sleep right
and your place in the world and your
general geographic location may not be
conducive for you to trade at 8:30 in
tomor New York local time you may have
to trade in the London session and yes
Virginia I will be up during the London
session doing one of these or two of
these lectures in a week or two okay so
we're not we're not focusing on one
specific time of Deb and I'll come back
to that section where I'll s write down
the times of De but when we looking at
initially you don't have to see this
real time to get a collection of
screenshots for your
Journal but if you don't do this and
journal and screenshot and annotate your
chart and study how long price runs took
place how many candles did it take to
move there was there any kind
of formation in the price delivery that
would have caused you to not trust it
unfolding now that's going to be very
hard for you to do because initially
especially the men they're always going
to say no I would have never second
guest it would it would have been easy
for me to hold on to that and these same
people when they get into a trade if
they ever were to do it in front of you
they don't have any conviction and
they're going to up and bail out on the
trade okay I gotta get out this I can't
stand the pressure it's moved five
handles but they call 30 handles or 50
hands above or below and they get out at
five hands because the pressure of it
not deing
what they expected to do and in
realizing a loss in front of someone
that's a lot more pressure for them and
they don't want to have that so what's
more important their image or them
following a model that they have seen
works and have trusted and did the back
testing and they have the data behind it
their image and that's not someone you
should learn from okay I'm just tossing
that out
so what we're looking for always the
first thing that you're looking looking
for Caleb is where is the market smooth
on the 15 the five and the one minute
chart is that complicated nope it's not
complicated at all it's real simple what
does it look like to be smooth well when
you have price levels that create highs
like this swing High
here and this swing High here they're
real close to one another see
that when you're looking for relative
equal High here's your secret weapon for
it okay how do you know it's a high
probability relative equal High that's
likely to get swept or traded through
how how do you know that ICT what
differentiates that from any other okay
it's
this if you have two swing highs if the
one to the left is slightly higher than
the right you have a very very high
probability that they're going to want
to take it above
there just like you see here we have a
high and then the swing here happens to
be just a little bit lower than that
here's what's going on this is called
priming okay priming is where you
continuously create Inspire or
manipulate the expectations of
a large number of investors and they
think oh it's going to go through that
high but then there's a lot of folks
that don't want to see it go there
because they went short so when the the
market goes up here and stops and turn
turns down what that does is it creates
a sympathetic
side the shorts are relaxing if the
shorts are relaxing what are they saying
they're saying that this is now what
resistance so anyone that takes a new
short
position where are they going to think
that the safest place to putli their
stop loss is going to be right above
these
highs why can we trust that they're
likely to take that relative equ High
out not that will that session that
you're trading but it's high probability
that this will be swept when the second
or the one to the right that swing high
is lower than the one to the left that
frames these two as relatively equal
okay same thing is occurring here we
have this High here this High here this
one being slightly lower than that one
so when the market went out like this
and we had this drop down what that
causes is a sympathetic
side what is that causing people anyone
that went short here they feel like
okay that's scary because it almost went
that high where their stop loss would be
if they're trying to go short in this
area see that so what do you think it
looks like when we have relative equal
lows what would be a high probability
relative equal low that the market is
likely to draw down and go below it
would be a low
that has a slightly
higher low in common terms it's you
refer as a failure swing okay so a
failure swing now a lot of people say oh
see he's just Reinventing no see what
you you're trying to trade that that's
what a failure swing is you're trying to
trade you long or short on that second
past that doesn't take out the low or
take out a a previous High that's
selling short of fairy swing okay what
I'm teaching you is is how to identify
in in price action where the algorithm
will refer back to and why what are the
what are the the central tenants as to
what the algorithm is referring to at a
specific time of day most important and
then it refers back to these because
okay it sees this High based on time and
then the higher high prior to that one
is here so it's very simple for the
algorithm to call that information as an
array and say okay this high was at this
time and this high was higher than prior
to it and they're in close proximity
what's the filter I'm not going to tell
you that but it's not very much in terms
of difference between the price and when
you have that element the market will
invariably start marching back to those
levels it does not matter matter it ABS
listen listen folks it does not matter
how many buyers are buying the market to
go up there and how many short sellers
okay the proof of it is is just look at
a depth of market look at a ladder okay
a Dom not a dome okay I'm so tired of
hearing people it's not a
dome do you see an e at the end of that
it's d o m it's a Dom okay depth of
market look at those orders
there's no imbalances there there's no
imbalances there's just as many short
orders below the market as there as
above but yet the market will still
march and March and March and March and
go to the Beet of the drum that I tell
you it does it reaches to these levels
because it's coded to do
this and if you do this for a couple
weeks you're going to see oh wow yeah
this this this feels artificial it feels
like it's it's designed to do these type
of things because they tends to repeat
every single day at specific times of
the day it will do this nobody go back
to the times
element every day between 8 o'clock in
the morning this is all always New York
local time okay so it's very important
you remember that we have new people
coming all the time and they'll say I
looked at this chart here and you told
me yeah but you're looking at it in
Bangladesh time okay I don't live in
Bangladesh I'm in the east coast of the
United States and the algorithm is on
New York local time I don't care what
anybody else tells you okay that's what
it's on period end the story you can
wrestle with it if you want but that's
just the way it is between 8 o00 and
8:30 in the morning you want to sit down
and determine where are the smooth
locations in price action on the 15
minute the five minute and the one
minute okay and we've had the 15 minute
on go down to a
five so right away you can see that this
High here is relative to that one and
this one here also with that this one
being slightly higher than that one so
there's a lot of liquidity that's
sitting at
17820 75 now real important it does not
mean that it has to happen during that
session it does not mean that and that
is the underlying risk that you assume
every single time you take a trade
you're looking for things that are going
to stack the odds of probability in your
favor it does not mean it's an absolute
guaranteed outcome see I have students
that literally take the time and waste
their time and writing me an email
sometimes they're like novels or
novelas and usually it's like three
paragraphs of congrat congratulating me
and and and worship and whatever and I
don't like that usually when I get that
kind of stuff I immedately this it's
push the email away I don't want you
looking up to me I don't want you
worshiping me I'm not the greatest of
all time I'm not the goat I'm not none
of those things I'm just a guy that has
a whole bunch of information and
experience and I want to share it with
you and I want to see what you do with
it
but these individuals will say you know
I need you to tell me how to uh make
sure that I don't have this wrong I only
want to take this P so how do I avoid
taking losing trades with a inversion
fair value G or a mitigation BL or the
breaker how do I know if it's a breaker
or if it's a shift in Market
structure well that's easy uh you have
to have a higher time frame premise and
the directional draw where the Market's
going to go and if you think it's going
to go higher um when you see the market
creating a short-term term um well
I'll give you an example here we have
the relative equal lows here and the
market drops you see that so this drop
down here every up close candle on this
time
frame all this right here that is your
breaker the most sensitive candle or
range is going to be the last up Clos
candle look at like
this that's this range low
and see where the body stopped right
there we Wick through it I'm not denying
that but the damage is always done by
the and the Range High
there that is your bullish breaker but
the range here from that up close candle
that starts all these
consecutive up closed candles all of
that is technically the bullish breaker
though the most sensitivity is going to
be seen in that last up close candle
that is not supplying to man that's not
that's not supplying to man Zone Sam
sidon would never ever ever refer to
what I just said never he would never do
that and he would never consider that
anyway because we're cutting through
candles because we're looking at what an
algorithm is doing not some Floor Trader
ticket Runners perception of something
that doesn't really exist so the turn
here at the bodies that tells you what
tells you the narrative so what is it
going to do it's going to go higher okay
so what at that time would you focus on
well you have the short-term High
here the inefficiency that's traded to
there we want to see it trade above it
and then act as what support which would
be a what inversion OFA to do that what
would it reach for
next this high and this inefficiency
does it do that yes what are the bodies
doing stopping just that same level here
and more specifically and my eyes didn't
notice this when I put it up here you
see that little
separation that's a volume imbalance go
back and listen to the other lectures
you have to include that volume
imbalance when you have clear that got
whether can this your
city you can see the bodies being
capsulated by that and now the market
trades back up into that the body's I'm
sorry the body's candlesticks are tra
inside efficiency it Wicks above it but
look where the bodies are stopping and
look where the bodies are over
here where's liquidity at below here
nothing in here this is all very
balanced price delivery because it's
back and forth every other candle is
overlapping the highest high and the
lowest low prear pretty
much kind of like coloring it very very
very good back and forth all this price
actions back and forth versus then we
have all these run where we have
separations in
here back down into that breaker
there this response right here to what
it's just done
there that expectation in response in
how price can react to levels like that
that's a nice little scalp right there I
mean look at it moved from 55 to
what 596 that's a good run you can't get
20 handles out of that on a 15sec
chart you can if you know what you're
looking
for now also notice we've created
again High lower
high high lower high but real close to
one another when did it
form prior to 9:30 so we have 8 to 8:30
and then you study 9 to 9:30 because
it's going to do what it's going to look
and seek the liquidity or inefficiencies
so here's
930 there forming on the bullish breaker
it trades down and then we have relative
equal highs
here I don't like to usually do this but
I have to do it to for the S of
discussion so we
have these relative equal highs this
high and that high relative equal high
and we have this area up here so if the
Market's going to do what if it's going
to make a punishing move towards the
shorts that want to see it
drop because the market has dropped
early on 7 o'clock in the morning okay
and we have all these very clean levels
what did we just do here we have a low
it was traded down into it disrupted
this little area in here so it's made
this area jagged
remember I was saying earlier where the
Market's real smooth over here versus
what it was doing down
here where has the work been
done
meaning if there is a group of traders
that are very cannibalistic and they
tend to be more correct than wrong or if
they are the ones that generally make
the money more consistently than the
ones that don't in other words think of
like the world series of
prer okay if you ever watched that it's
really fascinating to see how the
longterm players that always find
themselves at the final table they may
not win but they always find their way
at the final
table that's experience and that skill
well you can see those things in price
action they're like fingerprints okay
you can see when the cannibals come in
and they Devour the pigies they go in
there and just chew them all up and it's
where the market has made
Jagged price delivery always it's always
like this folks it's never not going to
be hidden from you okay it's always
Plain Sight but see you're so in
enamored by animal patterns harmonic
patterns gimmicky named supposed retail
IND indicators everybody's got a new
indicator I got one for you that's going
to beat all of them if the Open high low
and clo and the
clock how about that how about that
catch me outside how about that okay
it's simple and all of you complain not
all but just the ass hats there oh this
is complicated this is
convoluted so and so teaches this so
much better okay I don't see so and so
doing anything I don't see so and so
doing anything but using Market
replay and trying to convince himself
everything he says after he says it
so we had these relative equal highs
swept here see that a study bullish
breaker two there so how many candles
did it take to do that you screenshot it
how many how many handles did it run
from the low to that relative equal High
being taken out and once it does that
keep the chart active with it on there
but then just make it very very light
not that light make it light so that you
can still see it but have all of your
focus so that way allows you to focus on
the fa Gap here you trade it down into
mid gap which is this wi here since
price is above it that makes it a
discount array consequent approachment
of that trades to it we want to see it
run above
this some of you that are trying to
learn how to do
this are having a blast with this
because not only am I you get things to
talk about in your own journal of focus
but you're also seeing things unfold
over a live chart and you're watching on
your live chart okay so this is not
Market replay it's not delayed data okay
it's not after Thea talking narrative
over a chart everything that these ass
has leave comments on in my YouTube
comment section you can't see what I see
and didn't used by it there's the
relative equal highs there too so now
same thing here you want to mute that in
terms of its importance and now you want
to see does it have the wherewithal to
run aggressively for that 17,8
20.75 any of this seem complicated to
you it
shouldn't I already know what you're
thinking and some of you said that loud
yes because you're saying it when you
talk about it it's so obvious when you
talk about it when it's happening I can
see it when you point it out I just
can't point it out when I'm doing right
you're just learning it you expect to be
able to go out there right now if I turn
this live stream off and you're just
going to just know how to do it right
away because you watch them disclose one
or two things in one element in the
marketplace now you're suddenly going to
know how to do it nobody can reason to
expect to do that you're placing too
much emphasis on being fast I gotta
learn how to do it right now because the
Market's going to stop working next week
next year I thought the algorithm was
supposed to stop working this year
whatever get out of here get out of here
the batteries don't run dead on this
okay when the markets are dead then I
won't work anymore
okay but the point is this the very very
first thing you're doing as an
undeveloped unrefined Trader someone
like my son Caleb okay don't be offended
by that son is what called you worse
things the idea is that you're looking
for the smooth areas where the price so
obviously being defended and being
presented and being offered for retail
minded trades I don't look at charts I
absolutely don't look at charts and
think of what retail pattern here I can
use to get in sync with a price
R look at that beautiful delivery right
that volume balance there which is
inside and casul in that SIII went right
to the high of that now when you're
looking at price looking for the obvious
very very very smooth relative equal
highs or relative equal
lows how do you know which one they're
going to go to how do they know well I'm
sorry how do you know how can you trust
how do you determine which side of the
marketplace it's going to reach for
because what this is going to do it
gives you the initial building blocks to
understanding bias
oh you didn't realize we were going
there did you you didn't realize with
all this jaw burning and half of you
quit watching because I was talking
about things that wasn't interesting but
they're coming back to the channel now
or later on they'll say damn it went it
went right the where he said it was G to
go it did exactly what he said it was
going to do again and again and it's
going to do it tomorrow and it's going
to do it Wednesday and it's going to do
it Friday and it's going to do it next
week and it's going to do it every
fraking week that I want to stay out
here and do it live okay that's just the
way it works around
here that's the way it is because I
understand what this thing's doing and
then you want to screenshot that okay so
when you're looking at Price
action you want to be able to determine
what in this whole scheme of price
delivery what does it do in terms of
resonating with you where would you feel
conf confident this is the part that a
lot of my students skip over they don't
do any work with this part of it they
ignore it they assume that it has no
bearing on them it doesn't have any
basis or placement in them okay because
they want some kind of gimmicky little
one two three get me in the trade
where's my stop supposed to be I only
want to one handle stop loss like ICT I
want to be able to do everything
perfect right from step one I don't want
to have any adversities
that's not realistic because you're
going to have a whole lot of adversities
and you have to invite that be
comfortable with it because that's where
it's going to highlight your
shortcomings and your understanding and
it's going to also teach you how to
overcome it because once you identify
what you're having an issue with
wouldn't you want to know what your
problems are in your relationship like
if you if you were married to a new new
spouse and you genuinely love them but
they haven't been forthright in telling
you what your character flaws are that
really get under their skin because they
don't want to offend you because they
don't want to hurt your
feelings but wouldn't you want them
sincerely wouldn't you want them to tell
you in a way that doesn't hurt you that
doesn't jar you or make you feel
offended that you want to go run to the
bar and cheat on them you would love for
them to say hey um I love
you I sincerely sincerely care about you
I I want us to be together and that
romance is what you want with the
marketplace you want the market to open
its arms and invite you into an Embrace
and feel its bosom against
yours and that tenderness and that love
that acceptance that I've always been
waiting for you and you're finally with
me and I'm never going to let you go
honey I'm never going to let you go see
that's what you want you want that
romance but really what this is this is
a dysfunctional element of family and
what it does is it says listen my
husband's away come on over the bed's
open and you want to go there and ROM
around okay and find a spouse out of
that type of thing and you wonder why
you end up with STD or a broken home
that's the way it works but see you
think it's a love story it's a romance
it's not it's a toxic relationship and
one person in this relationship has to
be able to be reasonable and at some
point the person that's reasonable has
to say you know what this isn't healthy
for me
anymore so that means I have to turn the
charts off I need to stop following this
Market on this time frame right now
because it's not
healthy but you can't arrive at
that until you do rule-based ideas and
you break things down modular very
simplistic nothing I did today nothing
is
complex I outlined every single thing go
back and watch the live stream every
single thing was in advance and shown to
you on a one minute chart this would be
further Amplified if I was shown it to
you on a 15-second chart if you have the
capabilties I'm not saying you have to
but if you have the ability to look at a
15sec chart study every level I've
outlined here and the logic of why it
was going to draw up into that 17,8
20.75 level I gave you the bias before
we really essentially started there I
explained to you very
very Bland commentary Almost Boring
really it didn't seem scientific I used
analogies that I thought were very
simplistic you know when we're looking
at areas that are very
smooth contrast this area up here how
that was very very smooth and these
remember these levels over here show you
this
one in addition if you weren't looking
at that that's the benefit of looking at
three time
frames because if you can frame an idea
of why the Market's likely to draw to a
high or low or inefficiency that is
completely visible on three time frames
that means you have three time frames
telling you hey pay attention to me and
if that time frame or those time frames
are in agreement with a relative equal
high or a inefficiency above the
marketplace that means like something
like this right
here or this right
here or this right here they're all
Stepping
Stones notice
that they're all Stepping Stones inside
the context in the
underall sorry overall narrative that
the market was going to go here when I
first started the live session what
what's the first line I dropped on the
chart this one it was based on these two
highs here that's all it
was why did I pick this this High yes he
got my question finally I've been
sitting here the whole time you're
talking why' you pick that high what's
the first thing I told
you the algorithm is going to go based
on
time I don't care what Mickey Mouse
pattern with Mickey Mouse logic some
Romper Room theory that just got pulled
out of somebody's back side because they
want to sell some
attention for clicks and Views and
mentorships
unless it stems on the basis of time
first it has to be the right time if
it's not the right time of day it is
absolutely not going to work period end
the story put anybody as the mentor
anybody as the Traer I don't give a
[__] I tried real hard I almost got
through it I almost got through
it put anybody you want in that list
whatever they trade however they trade
it does not
work it will fail stick with it long
enough you'll see it will fail more
times than it but why and how is it that
every single time I'm sitting down with
you whether it be on a Twitter space
where I was calling out the candlesticks
individually before they happen or on a
live stream where I'm giving you the
logic explaining to you why it should do
it okay and then it just simply does it
how's that
possible no ego seriously let's let's
put it aside I'm not trying I'm not
trying to beat my chest here I really
want you especially if you're a first
time viewer here or maybe you come back
this your second time watching my live
stream because you expected me to do
something silly
today how is it how is it that the
market does exactly what I'm saying it's
going to do you ever think about that
how is it possible that one single
person can get it right so often in
front of thousands of people where many
of them are hoping and praying please
please God let him get it right I got to
go on Twitter and brag about how you
messed up today I got to make a video
exposing ICT I need grocery bill
[Music]
money you're so fun to manipulate all
you haters but 7 o'clock is a very key
time that starts what the morning
session it matters not that we're
trading Forex or Futures the morning
session am session starts at 7 o'clock
in the morning near time okay so you can
have a model that
says I can't be in front of the charts
between 8:00 and 8:30 and maybe you
can't even trade the 9:30 opening bell
for indices because you have to get
ready for work okay but it just so
happens that the time elements in your
personal life and geographic location in
the world that it allows you and aord
you to look at the Mark between 7:00 and
say
7:45 worst case scenario 7:30 if you're
going to work with smaller time frames
you absolutely can use 7 o' to 7:30 as a
model to do this very
exercise same
thing so your key times are this 7
o'clock in the morning to
7:30 in that 30-minute window you're
going to look for relative equal highs
and relative equal lows
that have happened prior to 7 o' okay
and you're going to be looking through
the time frames of the one minute chart
the five minute chart and the 15 minute
time now Caleb you're not expected to do
anything else beyond that until I change
the depth of what your focus should be
right now you're just having three
charts
up since the 15minute time frame is
pretty pretty static you only need to
refer to it once in the morning and then
your second chart could be the five
minute chart that's what it
isart
but then what you're doing is is you're
watching between 7 o'clock and 7:30 or
8:00 to 8:30 or 9 to 9:30 opening belt
you're looking for where is the market
smooth
smooth because Still
Waters invite rocks
think about that remember being a kid
walking when you see a pond it's real
smooth wow look at that was like a
mirror you can see the sky's reflection
off of it so smooth what's the first
thing you jumped in your head I need a
rock for what because you can't accept
that our sinful nature says we have to
disrupt that so you pick up a rock and
you want throw it out there why what's
it going to do it's going to cause
ripples that's exactly why a weak
character individual in a relationship
will have a beautiful
relationship a wonderful relationship
ship something smooth ain't no
drama no reason for
Ruckus and what they got to do they go
out there and you chase some th go to
the bar and pick up some
Floy or some silver tonged box it says
all the right things for
her and you invite that destruction well
that's what the market does folks it's a
dysfunctional family environment and you
have be the one that says not today
Satan not today not today I know your
tricks I know your snares I know how
you're going to do it okay so what's the
market going to do every single
session in the morning you have three
opportunities and you don't have to
trade in the afternoon you don't have to
trade the London session you have three
opportunities in the morning to set the
stage for a run that will build if you
don't have any understanding about bias
okay if you don't know what direction
the Market's going to move
in when I go into other people's live
streams and I say note this note that
here's the secret I just gave to you
what I do every single time I go into uh
tja traes when Patrick will had balls
and let me into his live streams and
chat he won't do that now because he's
gonna be pay me $500,000 this year um
the whole business of anyone else I
talked to trades by mat for a mon told
him what I was going to do what I was
looking for in private text and he can
show I gave him permission he can show
you what I was expecting and he watched
me do this for almost a
month and I got two or three of them
wrong but most of them were like and
guess what I was doing folks but I just
taught you here Tom
hugard not as much as I shared with ch
my that but in certain instances I
shared him this is what I'm looking for
this
level so it's not like I'm not afraid to
share this I I've put what I think is
going to happen in the witness of other
people and they can come out and say
yeah this guy don't know some's
talking and they're not telling me that
I'm invited them prove the world that I
didn't do
that I like certain people in this
inders and the ones I like I converse
with I share and I engage with
and when I go into other people's live
streams and I'm helping promote them uh
sometimes I'll go out and I'll point to
something and I'll say watch this level
when I was on Twitter watch not this
level I was doing this and my private
mentorship never learned this I never
sat down with them never told him that
this is a secret weapon it's a it's a
bazooka when a BB gun's
necessary when all you need is a match
this is a flamethrower it's
it's it's the thing that makes every
playing field even they cannot hide it
from you they cannot hide it from you
you're never not going to be able to see
it it's always there and in plain terms
it's this if you can contrast one side
of the
marketplace against another let me let
me do this in this little area down here
okay in a small little open section I'm
going to say this I'm going to close it
somewh be with my wife and
I hope you
haven't if you take this a moment for
now if you learn something today and if
you didn't learn something you're a
fraking liar okay but if you honestly
was with me this entire session and you
watch me outline this and I told you why
it was going to go here what levels were
key what to focus
on and you watch it pan and you
understood and you understand now and if
you don't I'm going to make it clear for
you give it a thumbs up because I that
as I appreciate you spending time with
us on C I don't need to be doing this I
can do this privately with Caleb I don't
I I can tell Caleb I understand that you
want to make a YouTube channel I
understand that that could make you a
little bit of scratch and money I
understand that but no I don't want
these people to know this I could do
that and I don't feel bad telling you
that openly because I've done a lot of
that stuff that I don't want to share
certain things because it's too good
because 20-year-old kids go out there
and pretend they didn't learn it from me
and they found it on their own and they
relabel it so they can make a name for
themselves and then eventually people
find out about them and then they expose
them D you're nothing more than just an
ICT
ripoff and you can spare yourself of all
that stuff just by being honest and say
you know what thank you ICT for sharing
this I'm going to make it mine and this
is how I use it I got no I got no
problem with that I got students out
there that doing mentorships now okay
it's their business it's not mine
they're not hiding where they learn it
from and that that's all I've asked for
this is just remember who fed you that's
it I'm not doing paid mentorships I
could be out here teaching this kind of
stuff and more for millions of dollars a
month all over again folks I don't want
it I don't want
it and if it wasn't for my son tapping
me saying hey Dad give me another chance
of do this I want to learn it I wouldn't
be doing this have you been seeing any
videos no I'm not worried about it but
since he wants to I'm going to pour
myself into it I'm going to pour
everything I have into this and I'm not
fully back to myself I'm not doing well
like I I've been experiencing vertigo
I've had ey blood pressure I've had
chest pains I've rushed to their
Hospital like I had a lot of stuff going
on and I'm not stressed about nothing
it's just my body's going through
something and I don't know what it is
and I don't not know how to trade I know
exactly how to trade I know exactly what
these markets going to do any given day
even on Sloppy Seek and Destroy days in
fact I'm going to wait until we have one
and I'm going to show you me executing
in one of them I am not fearful of any
of these Mar profiles I'm not fearful of
my stuff falling out of style because
there is no style this is the market
this is the source code but when you set
up a framework of whatever you're going
to study in the morning if you're going
to trade the morning session your key
times you have to absolutely be in front
of the charts between 7 o'clock and 7:30
in the morning always New York local
time okay if you can be in front of the
charts by 7 o'clock this is what you're
doing but if you can't you do the same
thing at 8:00 to 8:30 the same thing at
9 to 9:30
okay this is your pre-market range write
that down because if you don't write it
down you're going to forget you're going
to call it the opening range it's not
the opening range the opening range is
the first 30 minutes after the opening
BT at the New York session the first 30
minutes
after 7 o'clock to 7:30 that is your
pre-market range 7:30 to 8 o' is your
opening
range remember I was telling I could
trade every single hourly candle now
you're starting to think your are
turning aren't
they it's fun isn't it and obviously the
9 to 9:30 that's your pre-market range
and then post 9:30 to 10 o'clock that's
your opening range there is no 15 minute
opening range I don't care what anybody
tells you okay it's a 30 minute opening
range that's
algorithmic okay so what you're doing
and this this little range here that's
being shown here with this rectangle
what I'm saying is this is essentially
that 30 minute interval whether it be
7:00 to 7:30 or 8:00 to 8:30 or 9 to
9:30 that pre-market range in that range
what you're doing is you're looking at
this this line or beginning of that
shaded area would delineate the 7
o'clock or the 8 o'cl or the 9
o'cl where it begins at that specific
top of the outle and then this would be
the range that makes up that first 30
minutes now it's not obviously the scale
but I'm oversimplifying for the of
teaching what I'm
saying prior to that range anything
before or to the left of this you're
looking for equal
highs or equal lows which side has
it because that's your bias it's going
to draw to that how do you know if you
have
both because I heard you you're thinking
but what happens if you have a relative
equal High here and relative equal low
which one
you wait for the first one to get
disrupted because once that happens then
you work to the other one that's that's
your bias so you have to defer and wait
now gamblers or live streamers that just
want to have people watching and doing
anything and not really executing on
stream but after the trade starts moving
in their favor then they'll show to
trade here what good is that what good
is that that just proves you're not
confident in what you're doing and
you're going to show it after it's moved
in your favor talk about it explain it
and then do it I'm going to do that but
today I gave you a clinic on how to
determine bias how it's easy for me and
it's easy for you whichever one has the
relative equal highs or relative equal
lows that's a smooth area it will be
disrupted anywhere where you see Jagged
edges like this down here see I went
Jagged and then ripped higher what's it
telling you what's it telling you I'm
going to look for buy side liquidity buy
stops this has been a trap they engage
traders to go short they're they're
trapped short on a breakout
or they're not trying to take the shorts
out of the market yet and that's why you
see all this in here creeping up this is
all balanced that's why this Spike stop
right top of the breaker isn't that
interesting isn't that interesting I've
been talking
nonstop no chance for me to have another
add over voice over it's all live you
watched me do it live I explained the
logic and now here's the wonderful thing
you have the
privilege to go back to your charts and
back test this and your jaws going to
drop you're going to be thinking it's
always been there but I've been looking
for this stupid ass harmonic pattern
I've been waiting for my yin and yang to
appear in my chart I've been waiting for
my moving average is crossing over but
my my Lux algo indicator said this and
then said that and I got tripped up I
thought it was going to do no [__]
[__] it's all
[__] there's nothing complicated
about what I said in any of the
mentorship the years they're just very
deep dry lessons that give you the why
because I'm a person that's highly
technical I want to know why it's going
to do it don't tell me something and
then do it 10 times and we write 10
times and that's not going to convince
me of anything I need to know why it's
doing it and if you don't think
critically about that you're a
gambler you absolutely are a gambler I
need to understand before I put money
behind it I need to know why is this
Market going to do this then at that
time why should it behave that way and
folks you can't get any pler or simpler
than simply saying okay where it's
smooth now you're going to say well this
isn't new ICT you talked about relative
equal highs and lows before right and I
taught that you should be aiming for
them but you haven't been trading like
that you've been doing other stuff and
then cussing me behind my back saying
this stuff doesn't work this guy's a
fraud we don't see his name on the
leaderboard he's a
fraud I'm out here in front of your life
telling you what's going to happen you
think I can't do that in Rob's
C you think I can't do
that come on you guys are Gable man
you're so easy you're so easy I love it
I absolutely love
it but anyway Market trades down to the
bullish breaker that I absolutely
identified before it hits it and then
goes to the relative equal highs I told
you to focus on and then I gave you this
one here and I told you this inbalance
it's prior to these relative equal highs
being taken but this was where we were
focused on and look where we're
trading see
that now in
closing I really do have to
close in this price run and we're not
going to use all of this this is
capitulation it's getting more
excited if we have this segment of price
action
okay if I'm
identifying this area up
here okay more specifically let's be
honest because this is the one I drew
your attention to first so we'll stick
with that even though that that other
one wasat even before it got
Traer did you get the video a thumbs up
by the way did you take a take a second
of your time to press that up thumb icon
on YouTube that's free I didn't charge
anything for it because that really is a
way for you to communicate to me that
you had fun today that you really did
leave and learn something and now you
have something that's tangible that you
go back and look at every single day in
the past in journal because you should
be doing that every single day you break
down the at 7 o' in the morning have 7
o'clock in the morning all the way till
say uh 11:00 okay so it's four hours and
you want to have your 15 minute time
frame your five minute time frame your
one minute time frame charts and
annotate it may require you to have
multiple charts from that individual one
minute chart where you're zoomed in and
you're Ting something specific that are
very Salient to you because most of you
may not have trusted this as a bullish
breaker when you saw this drop in here
you're hoping and some of you were
probably tickled your [__] was
puffing and thinking he's getting
screwed in in front of all this I love
it I love it I love it you're drooling
and then what happens it rips your face
off and I'm right
again I know I know I could have a whole
lot of fun with that but I'm not because
I'm here to try to teach my son and
you're here to
learn if you go back through all this
price run here okay what you're going to
do is you're going to focus on the
points that make the most obvious that
you could see and it says you know what
I understand this even though ICT
pointed out this breaker you may have
noticed it maybe you didn't if you
didn't that's not your PD
R if you noticed that it traded down
into this sphere Val you got right
there inside of this old Cy which is
essentially where that
midpoint between where we expect price
to trade to which is above these highs
and where it traded from
see that so if we see where it's likely
to go and where it went from where it
originated from where's the midpoint
well let's do a simple measurement
here's your fib and we're going to say
something above these relative equal
highs we'll just randomly pick an area
right there okay I'm just being very
Bland there's no real reason I'm picking
that price it's just simply slightly
above the relative equal High there's no
other logic simply that okay so I'm not
trying to complicate anything but if you
take that and you go down to the lows
that are relatively equal not the lowest
low that's the manipulation you want to
use the relative equal lows like that
okay see that and then you have
essentially the midpoint here in close
proximity to that you have this fair
value
Gap and you have a sp and this one here
can be used even though it's a little
bit above equilibrium because we didn't
take this high and that high out which I
was outlining to you real time take that
out yet we didn't take out these two
relative equal highs when it was traded
down to the breaker but what happens
when it trades up here and then at real
time I said watch this fair value got
watch the
stream go back and watch the stream when
we were trading right there I said watch
and here we are trading got here and
then takes off and runs to where we were
waiting to see it
deliver the smooth areas are going to be
attacked the sharks are going to go to
Still
Water that's where they're going to go
why because as soon as someone in there
starts shaking in fear that their Stop's
going to be taken that still water will
Ripple and that triggers a frenzy and
the sharks are going to go right
there you don't trade into levels where
the sharks have already had a frenzy and
that's down
here okay they've already done the work
there's been an attack down here how do
you know there's been the great
disturbance in in in what price was
doing and how it was delivered it's
Jagged like shark teeth cutting through
the side of a whale's body it's been
damaged
delivered you can see it it's physically
representative in the jaggedness of the
swings going down where we don't see
that jaggedness up here it's nice and
Smo thrilling biting it's safe put your
stops above you like a siren calling out
to the sailors come to me come to me and
crashes them on the
Rocks I know Mr anology I don't know
where it comes
from but you have to go through all of
this price action in here and determine
what price level makes sense to you
which one resonates
with do you see the fair value gaps
where I was outlining before I did it
did it make sense when I was drawing
them
out did you change your expectation and
get fearful that I'm wrong and it's not
going to go up there because that this
drop here what's occurring here the only
thing it's doing is at 9:30 during the
opening range it's doing what it's
creating a Judith
swim something that's opposite to the
real move the real move was given to you
with these highs it's going to go
there at any time did you hear me sound
nervous in front of all of you I don't
know how many people were watching I
think there was like 6,000 earlier first
time I checked the streams
continuity but I haven't seen I don't
know what the highest high do in terms
of how many people are watching did that
sound like I was nervous because I don't
think I was nervous at all way and I've
been really really trying not to say any
embellishments
on the curse words and stuff but
sometimes it's just it has it find its
way out I'm I'm human I'm a sinner and I
have to repent all the time when I do it
um I always regret when it slips out but
that's I'm I'm real like I'm a real
person and I have character flaws like
anybody else but I try very very hard
today not to use that type of language
but depending upon what subject matter I
refer to it will it'll draw it at me and
I'm not proud of it but anyway we can
see how that c becomes an inversion Fair
Val G here and then it sends price
higher reches down and then you have
your second leg redistribution and it
the smooth area thats up this
Market I knew it I yeah that's how it is
so when you're looking for the
bias okay the easiest most scientific
proven nine out of 10 doctors approved
ICT has nailed it down to a science of
wherever the smooth equal Highs are or
smooth relative equal lows are at the
beginning of 7 o' to 7:30 or 8:00 to
8:30 or 9 to 9:30 you got three
opportunities three chances
okay as each one of these time Windows
passes
by so at 7 o'clock we formed the
relative equal high and then at 8 to
8:30 we didn't go up there yet so that
means that what 9 to 9:30 chances are
that's the
Run see how that does that it increases
the likelihood of it going there it
doesn't diminish it because it's
building up more trust in that are right
there so the framework begins at 7 o' in
the
morning start looking for relative equal
highs to
form not
before key key takeaway is not before 7
o'clock at 7 o'clock look for them to
form big big big big takeaway there okay
if you're looking for relative equal
highs PRI 7 o'clock in the morning you
may you may get it but many times you're
expecting the London session to be
completely overd and it's it's most
times not the case so it kind of like
builds in this filter where you're not
trying to demand that the run on London
is removed or
or dismissed because of price over
overlapping it and going back over top
of it because the general consensus is
we could see the higher low they form in
m so if it's bearish or bullish relative
to a higher time frame draw which is not
necessary notice I haven't even used
that here yet only thing I used was a
15minute time frame a 5 minute time
frame in a one minute time frame and I
was framing on the basis of time because
I understand my algorithm I understand
what it's going to do I understand
exactly what these markets are going to
do every single day every single day it
will not stop it will not be hidden from
you but it can be disrupted by manual
intervention and that always cause me to
lose it will always cause me to be
incorrect because that's something that
we and no one can predict it's their
Casino if they want to come in and you
know disrupt everything it is what it is
and that's the inherent risk that every
one of us has to assume while trading so
that's that should be the number one
reason why you should never over
leverage because that is always looming
and condition in the marketplace right
now in geopolitical tension and turmoil
that is expected to unfold at any given
time any moment folks things could pop
off and your little indicator or your
little market structure idea whether it
be mine or somebody else's stuff means
nothing when that happens it literally
is Canon fodder it's gone you're
dusted and if you happen to be
overleveraged when it happens you're
going to
and sorry but it's not going to be
pleasurable it's going to be it's going
to be a hard swallow and probably end
you and take you out the game entirely
and all of that is avoidable if you
don't over leverage if you trade with
one contract and you try to capture
moves like this I promise you're going
to beat the socks off of every one of
the live streamers out there and my
students included all of them that are
doing well now they're going to start
applying this and watch and see how well
they start
increasing and people that don't
their trades are going to start working
and go back and look at what I'm taught
you here they're going you're going to
see that they're using this too it's a
secret weapon I didn't want to give it
to anybody I did not want to give it
away to
anyone it's a it's a home field
advantage one of many that I have but
because I want my son to know what he's
doing that's real simple it's it's not
complicated it's one or the other and if
there's two extremes above and below the
range
that's relative equal high and relative
equal low then you just wait for one of
them to be disrupted and just sometimes
you'll miss a move sometimes it'll do it
and then you won't get a trade who cares
who cares when you back test this you're
you're GNA see like what am I worried
about man like this is so many times
offered to me every single week right
that's the mindset you need to come away
with not I got to trade every single day
when it's so obvious when it's so
obvious
that's the ones you want to trade on
because retail is going to have every
hope and prayer hanging on those
relative equal highs thinking it's
resistance and they're going to eat
them they're going to devour them and
grind their bones the powder and you can
have a moral dilemma and have some
convictions about that being oh I can't
do that to somebody else I can because
they signed the same risk disclosure
that I do when I open
to and if they make the wrong move
interrupt
them that's how you
eat that's how you eat
here and if you have a problem with that
then trading's not for
you and there's nothing wrong with that
either but hopefully you you see that
when we're doing this we're not trying
to be smart we're not trying to be more
popular than somebody else we're not
trying to get more attention and more
viewership or more followers we're in
here to try to make money so that way
you can make your ends me that's it and
some of you will supercharge that and
become pillars in the community and and
and Titans and be so much bigger than I
am and I'm here to see it I want to see
it I want to cheer you
on I'd love it for one of my sons to be
that
person I've been trying to cultivate
that since they were little but they're
they're individual personalities and you
know how it is you listen to your
parents and even if your dad can do it
and prove it over and over and over and
over and over again sometimes still
isn't enough as a motivation to do
because you have to want to do it and
guess what makes that happen when you
make them work menial jobs and they hate
it what's the alternative College that's
have the
question so do what works do what works
and can be proven I could do this in
front of the Supreme Court
right just like I did today I ain't
afraid of it I'm not afraid of this and
when you get that confidence it's not
arrogance but when somebody doesn't know
how to do something and they feel
miserably when they hear somebody talk
like that and when they see somebody
display it it's so uncomfortable it's
unbearable for them so now you are a
narcissistic jerk you're arrogant you're
conceited
okay is that going to make me lose money
on the next trade no is that going to
make me forget that the logic that is
being employed here no I'm not here for
friends I'm not here for friends neither
should you
be I'm warming up to these candlesticks
when it's appropriate but when the date
is over I'm going home alone they're not
spending a night with
me that's all it
is it's a
momentary engage
and I'm leaving before any kids are
made simple as that I'm staying
protected I'm wrapping up I got a stop
loss I know when I hit the brakes and go
out the other direction if it's a
grenade I'm getting out of there before
it does any
damage and that's me thinking like a
man for the ladies you you come up with
your own analogy I'm not that good with
it with the lady
side but hopefully you you've learned
something today um I'm going to close
this one I going invite you all tomorrow
to to come back if you found this
insightful it'll be a little bit more
technical tomorrow uh today was more or
less the mindset how to relax when
you're watching the charts and what to
look for so that way you're not holding
so much expectation over yourself and
then you can enjoy enjoy studying it
because it's important that you do enjoy
it because if it's if it's daunting and
you're not really seeing any kind of fun
um char istics in it it's going to be
very hard to stick with it so I I tried
to cultivate that today if I was
successful you can obviously show me by
giving a thumbs up I promise you I don't
make any more money I thumbs up and you
don't take any money from me when you
put the thumbs down either it doesn't
change anything but it's just a way for
you to give me feedback that that you
found something in this today that made
sense for you that you are inspired to
go into your charts and you had fun
while you were running so this is going
to be the end of lecture number one
dealing with the foundations of
determining a bias it's very very simple
it doesn't doesn't require a whole lot
of complicated things it's very time
specific without the time elements none
of it matters and it's very very rule
based that doesn't require a whole lot
of moving Parts where it's smooth it's
going where it's Jagged it's going to
move away from very very simple logic
folks not complicated at all and I'll
talk to you tomorrow Lord willing be
safe